$Id: vas_overview.txt 98 2010-07-16 02:12:50Z yamamoto2 $

Overview:

Vastsky is a linux-based cluster storage system, which provides logical
volumes (linux block devices) to users by aggregating disks over a network.

A vastsky system consists of three kinds of servers;
	- storage manager
	- head servers
	- storage servers
Vastsky assumes that the servers are connected each other by a mostly-flat
network.  (eg. an ethernet segment)

A storage manager maintains a database which describes physical
and logical resources in a system, e.g. servers, disks, logical volumes.
It serves xml-rpc based API that operates on resources, e.g. create and
attach logical volumes.

Normally there should be only one storage manager on a Vastsky system.
Vastsky currently does not provide any redundancy for the storage manager
itself.  It might be a good idea to consider to use external HA solutions
for this.

Head servers run user applications which actually use Vastsky logical
volumes.

Storage servers have physical disks which are used to store user data.
They are exported over the network and used to provide logical volumes
on head servers.  Anything which Linux recognizes as a block device can
be used as vastsky physical disks.


Redundancy, fault detection and recovery:

Vastsky mirrors user data to three storage servers by default.
Vastsky attempts to detect hardware failures including broken disks.
On a failure, the storage manager attempts to reconfigure mirrors
by allocating new extents from other disks automatically.

Vastsky can be configured to use two networks (e.g. two independent
ethernet segments) for redundancy.  When one network is down Vastsky
will attempt to use the other network transparently to users.

The storage manager periodically checks if each head and storage servers
are responsive.  Disks on unresponsive storage servers are considered
broken and the mirror reconfiguration mentioned above will happen.

Vastsky provides XML-RPC based API, which allows external monitoring
programs report resource failures.
